content: Update software integrations (#80)
fictionlab/docs: docs/integrations/software/aruco-tracking.mdx

---
title: ArUco-Tag tracking with OpenCV

> sidebar_label: ArUcoTag tracking with OpenCV module

Reviewer: Why does the title and sidebar label differ? Also, I don't see a sense in specifying OpenCV, unless it's for better SEO?

Author: The fact that label and title differ is my mistake - I didn't catch that. Regarding mentioning `OpenCV` - it's influenced by the ROS package name that is used for this task and the ROS1 tutorial about ARTag tracking with alvar package.

Author: Btw in the ROS1 `ARTag tracking` there is also the inconsistency in the title and sidebar label.

Author: Anyway, the label and title are now unified in both tutorials.

<launch version="0.1.1">
  <node pkg="aruco_opencv" exec="aruco_tracker_autostart">
    <param from="/etc/ros/tracker.yaml" />
  </node>
</launch>
```

Now you can run the tracker with this command:

```bash
ros2 launch /etc/ros/tracker.launch.xml
```

or you can include your launch file in the `robot.launch.xml` file, so that the
node will start at boot. To do so, put this line somewhere before the closing
`</launch>` tag.

```xml title="/etc/ros/robot.launch.xml"
<include file="/etc/ros/tracker.launch.xml"/>
```

Now you need to reboot the rover, or restart the ros nodes

```bash
ros-nodes-restart
```

## Generate ArUco markers

Now, we need to create some markers, so go back to your computer.

If you don't have ROS installed, you can follow this guide:

<LinkButton
  to="/leo-rover/1.8/advanced-guides/install-ros-on-your-computer"
  title="Install ROS on your computer"
  description="Learn how to install the Robot Operating System (ROS) on your computer.
  Step-by-step guide for beginners."
/>

Install the `aruco_opencv` package:

```bash
sudo apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-aruco-opencv
```

And run the `create_marker` script:

```bash
ros2 run aruco_opencv create_marker 0
```

> This will create $0.2$x$0.2$m marker with id 0 and save it to `markers.pdf`

Reviewer: It's probably worth mentioning that you can run:
```
ros2 run aruco_opencv create_marker --help
```
for available options.

Author: Done

keywords:
  - aruco
  - tracking
  - opencv
  - marker
  - leo
  - integration
  - example
  - software
description: >-
  Learn how to use the ros_aruco_opencv ROS package to detect ArUco tags with
  your Leo Rover and visualize them in RViz.
image: /img/robots/leo/integrations/artag-tracking-alvar/leo-artag-erc.webp
---

import LiteYouTubeEmbed from 'react-lite-youtube-embed';

An ArUco tag is a type of fiducial marker widely used in robotics and computer
vision to support tasks such as localization, mapping, and navigation. These
visual markers provide a reliable, easily detectable point of reference that
helps robots perceive and interpret their environment with precision.

In this example, we will use
[ros_aruco_opencv](https://github.com/fictionlab/ros_aruco_opencv/tree/jazzy)
package for detecting individual markers.

As sending raw images from the camera via wireless network may be insufficient,
we will relay all the processing to the Raspberry Pi.

<ImageZoom
  loading="eager"
  src="/img/robots/leo/integrations/artag-tracking-alvar/leo-artag-erc.webp"
  alt="Leo Rover and ARTags at ERC"
  width="1500"
  height="635"
/>

## What to expect?

> If all goes well, you should end up with something like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After this tutorial is completed,  you should end up with something like this:
```

Author: Done

/>

Install `aruco-opencv` package:

```bash
sudo apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-aruco-opencv
```

### Creating launch and configuration files

To launch the tracker you can, create your own launch file, use the one from the
`aruco-opencv` package or you can use the provided launch file which provides
basic config for detecting single markres.

In /etc/ros create a `yaml` configuration file. This simple example sets the
basic parameters for the node.

```yaml title="/etc/ros/tracker.yaml"
/**:
  ros__parameters:
    cam_base_topic: camera/image_color
    output_frame: 'base_link'

    marker_dict: 4X4_50

    image_sub_qos:
      reliability: 2
      durability: 2
      depth: 1

    publish_tf: true
    marker_size: 0.0742

    aruco:
      adaptiveThreshWinSizeMin: 3
```

:::info

You will most likely need to change marker_size parameter depending on the
actual size of your printed ArUco tag.

The parameters in `aruco` namespace are dynamic reconfigure parameters - which
means you can change them as the node is working using `rqt` (in
`dynamic reconfigure` plugin). You can play with their values and then add
chosen parameters to the `yaml` file.

> You can check
> [here](https://docs.opencv.org/4.2.0/d5/dae/tutorial_aruco_detection.html)
> description of each parameter in the `aruco` namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find a detailed description of each parameter in the  `aruco` namespace
[here](https://docs.opencv.org/4.2.0/d5/dae/tutorial_aruco_detection.html).
```

Author: Done

:::

Next, also in `/etc/ros` create a launch file that will use the previously added
configuration with the tracker node.

```xml title="/etc/ros/tracker.launch.xml"
<launch version="0.1.1">
  <node pkg="aruco_opencv" exec="aruco_tracker_autostart">
    <param from="/etc/ros/tracker.yaml" />
  </node>
</launch>
```

Now you can run the tracker with this command:

```bash

> ros2 run /etc/ros/tracker.launch.xml

Reviewer 2: I don't think this command will work - can you double check it?

Author: You are right, I meant `ros2 launch` there.

```

or you can include your launch file in the `robot.launch.xml` file, so that the
node will start at boot. To do so, put this line somewhere before the closing

> `</robot>` tag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`</launch>` tag.
```

Author: Done

```xml title="/etc/ros/robot.launch.xml"

> <include file="/etc/ros/tracker.laumch.xml"/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<include file="/etc/ros/tracker.launch.xml"/>
```

Author: Done

Make sure that the robot's camera can see your marker, and detects it.

:::

On `/aruco_tracker/debug` topic you can see the Camera images with the frame
axes of detected markers drawn on top of it. To see those images you need to
click on the Displays panel **Add** -> **By topic** and search for
`aruco_tracker`. There you will have `debug` topic for which you will be able to
choose `Image` display. Click it and confirm with **Ok**.

<ImageZoom
  src="/img/robots/leo/integrations/aruco-tracking/rviz-aruco-image.webp"
  width="1365"
  height="729"
/>

Your final setup should look more or less like this:

<ImageZoom
  src="/img/robots/leo/integrations/aruco-tracking/rviz-setup-final.webp"
  alt="Adding Marker topic to visualization marker in RViz"
  width="1365"
  height="729"
/>

## What next?

With this tutorial completed you may be wondering what to do next. Our pick
would be the [ARTag follower](/leo-rover/1.8/leo-examples/follow-artag).
However, you can check out other examples from leo_examples repository (like
[line follower](/leo-rover/1.8/leo-examples/line-follower) and
[object detection](/leo-rover/1.8/leo-examples/object-detection)). You can also

> check out other integrations from our [Integrations site](/integrations).

Reviewer 2: Tutorials linked here are for ROS 1 and don't have a ROS 2 alternative - maybe change this text and add this when these tutorials exist for ROS2?

Author: It's not the first integration tutorial on ROS2 that we have published with links to ROS1. In my opinion it'll be easier to update just the links (easier to find at least), than remembering where something has to be added.

The detected ArUco Tags are also published to `/aruco_detections` topic, so you
could use the output in your custom nodes.

## Prerequisites

<LinkButton
  to="/leo-rover/guides/ssh"
  title="Connect via SSH"
  description="Learn how to establish an SSH connection with your Leo Rover and access its
  terminal using Putty or OpenSSH."
/>
<LinkButton
  to="/leo-rover/guides/connect-to-network"
  title="Connect to a local network and the Internet"
  description="Learn how to connect your Leo Rover to a local network and the internet to
  download files and forward internet to your computer."
/>

## Software integration

### Installing the packages

Start by logging in into your rover via SSH:

<LinkButton
  to="/leo-rover/guides/ssh"
  title="Connect via SSH"
  description="Learn how to establish an SSH connection with your Leo Rover and access its
  terminal using Putty or OpenSSH."
/>

Install `aruco-opencv` package:

```bash
sudo apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-aruco-opencv
```

### Creating launch and configuration files

To launch the tracker you can, create your own launch file, use the one from the
`aruco-opencv` package or you can use the provided launch file which provides

> basic config for detecting single markres.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
basic config for detecting single markers.
```
